2025-06-18
AWS Monitoring and Logging Cheatsheet

Key Services
| AWS Service | Primary Use Case     | When to Use                                                                                                                                                     |
|-------------|----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| CloudWatch  | Performance Auditing | Used to collect and track metrics, collect and monitor log files, and set alarms.                                                                               |
| CloudTrail  | Auditing             | Used to collect logs and saves a history of API calls made with your AWS account, enables security analysis, resource change tracking, and compliance auditing. |

Amazon CloudWatch: a monitoring service for AWS cloud resources and the applications you run on AWS,
this is for performance monitoring, (CloudTrail is for auditing).

Used to collect and track metrics, collect, and monitor log files, and set alarms.

Automatically react to changes in your AWS resources.

Monitor resources such as:
    * EC2 Instances
    * DynamoDB tables
    * RDS DB Instances
    * Custom metrics generated by applications and services
    * any log files generated by your applications

Gain system-wide visibility into resource utilization.

Best Practice is to store logs in Cloudwatch Logs or S3.

AWS CloudTrail: a webservice that records activity made on 
your account and delivers log files to an Amazon S3 Bucket.

CloudTrail is for auditing (CloudWatch is for performance)

CloudTrail is about logging and saves a history of API calls for your AWS account

Provides visibility into user activity by recording actions taken on your account.

API history enables security analysis, resource change tracking, compliance auditing.
CloudTrail records account activity and service events from most AWS services and logs the following records:

    * The identity of the API caller.
    * The time of the API call.
    * The source IP address of the API caller.
    * The request parameters.
    * The response elements returned by the AWS service.
    * CloudTrail is enabled by default.

CloudTrail is per AWS account.
You can integrate CloudTrail w/ CloudWatch logs to deliver data events captured by CloudTrail to
CloudWatch Logs log stream.




